You recording me now? Hang on a second.
All right. Today's deadlift day and I'm
going to teach you all about
deadlifting.
Why should you listen to me? Great
question. I'm glad you asked. Well, I'm
the coach of the person who has the
biggest deadlift on the planet and
that's Athl Bjönson. At this point, he's
two weeks out from attempting 510 kg.
So, by the time you watch this, maybe
he's already done it. But at the very
least, at this point, he currently owns
the all-time world record, which is 505
kg performed in competition at
Eisenhart, uh, six weeks ago or five
weeks ago, something like that. And I'm
going to teach you all of the things
that I know about deadlifting and
teaching people how to deadlift. And one
of the biggest lessons that I can say is
understanding fatigue management because
the deadlift is in my opinion um and I
don't want to say just my opinion, I'd
say a lot of people's opinions the most
fatiguing exercise, the most demanding
exercise that takes the most time to
recover from of all of the exercises. So
that means we need to be very
intelligent with how much of it we do
during a week and how frequently we
perform heavy deadlifts. So, I've done
videos before where I talk about my
favorite approach for my deadlifts is to
not deadlift and just drive up my
squats. Uh, and yep, that's pretty much
it. Now, of course, that's not the same
approach that I had with Thor Bjönson,
who specializes in deadlift, and he goes
into a competition to just perform the
deadlift with nothing else. I'm a
powerlifter, so my approach is slightly
different.
So, if you're a powerlifter and you need
to prioritize your squat with equal
emphasis as your deadlift, this is where
I recommend
maybe doing a little bit more volume
with your squats than your deadlifts.
But if you're training for a deadlift by
itself, then the rules change. And I'm
going to talk a lot about all of that.
But for me, I want my squats to
progress. A squat has a better carryover
to a deadlift than a deadlift does to a
squat. So, what do I mean by that? If
all you do is squat and you don't do any
deadlifts, your deadlifts probably won't
regress and it may even improve. And
that's what often happens with me. A lot
of the times when I get my squats up and
I especially if I perform deadlifts as
an accessory, which is what I'm doing at
the moment, my deadlift will still
progress. But vice versa isn't true. If
I just did deadlifts really, really
heavy and didn't do much squat work, my
squats wouldn't go up very well. This is
my approach at the moment. I'm trying to
drive my squats up. And what I'm doing
with my deadlifts is I'm keeping them as
an accessory. So, what I want to show
you today is all of my favorite
accessory exercises that I use uh you
know, not just for Thor because I'm
going to be doing sumo deadlift as well,
which I know that that's uh not a good
word for a lot of people. A lot of
people are against sumo deadlifts. I
don't have an emotional attachment to
any exercise. And I think that if you
want to do a sumo deadlift, you're
allowed to, which you are in
powerlifting competition, and it's a
better lift for you, then that's what
you should use. Uh, so I'm going to
teach sumo deadlifters, my favorite
accessory exercise for sumo. But in my
opinion, the best accessories usually
involve some type of a pause, which is
what I'm going to be starting with. So,
I'm starting with my favorite uh paused
conventional deficit deadlift. So the
beauty of this exercise is
firstly that you don't go you can't go
as heavy as what you can with a
conventional deadlift with a regular
conventional deadlift because we're
standing on a deficit which increases
the range of motion and I'm adding a
pause in which also makes it so I'm not
able to lift as heavy weight. So because
the loads aren't as heavy it's not as
fatiguing on my body so it's easier to
recover from or in other words it's not
going to interfere a lot with my heavy
squat session. So, if I was to go really
really heavy deadlifts, I'd be able to
deadlift a heavier weight, but then I
would feel the fatigue on my squat day
potentially, which is why currently I'm
choosing this exercise to help continue
to strengthen my deadlift pattern,
but do it in a way where it's not so
heavy and therefore not so fatiguing
that it's going to interfere with me
driving my squats forward. So, check
this out. This size deficit is not
entirely necessary. I like to do an
extra long range of motion, but this is
also because I'm not competing anytime
soon. If you were to do this closer to a
competition, so don't go too close, not
four weeks, maybe not even eight weeks.
So maybe like 8 weeks out from a
competition, I would even recommend a
low deficit deadlift. The higher the
deficit, the less specific it comes,
right? So this is going to be a lot of
people say, "Oh, it's got a really high
deficit, so therefore it's going to have
an even better carryover." Not
necessarily. Really high deficit
deadlifts gets you really good at doing
high deficit deadlifts. And then if you
go back to pulling off the floor, it's a
slightly different skill. And a lot of
people are unpleasantly surprised with
how little carryover it actually had. So
you need to be wise with what you're
doing here. So for me, I don't have any
competition anytime soon. So I'm
choosing a very, very long range of
motion, which is a, you know, an extra
thick deficit that I'm going to be
standing on. Now, the reason why I like
this
is it's my favorite exercise to
strengthen
your strength off the floor. So, that
additional range of motion. So, what I'm
actually going to be doing is I'm going
to be aiming to pick that weight up the
height of the deficit. So, about
whatever that is, one or two inches,
right? So, I pick it up about 2 in and I
pause there. Now, that height is exactly
what the height is when I pull the
regular bar. So it's going to be
equivalent to this 9 in height, right,
without the deficit. So that's the idea
of that carryover is not a huge
like you're not you're not picking up so
high. You're only pausing about a couple
of inches off the floor. Now, what does
that do? It increases the time under
tension at that exact point. Let me just
do a set.
An interesting point here is I believe
this is my favorite exercise to
strengthen your lockout. So how could
that be? Well, the fact is a lot of
times when people have lockout
weaknesses, a lot of people think that
it's, you know, hip extensor strength
because that's the last component of a
deadlift. And that would be true if you
failed your deadlift with this perfect
posture, which no one actually does. So
if you failed like this and you couldn't
you couldn't get your hips through
because your hips weren't strong enough,
which is in my opinion never the case,
then a rack pull would be a great choice
of exercise. But what does it look like
when you fail your lock out? I'll tell
you what it looks like. It looks like
you've been pulled out of position
because that weight was so heavy off the
floor and you've actually grounded up
and you've got your hips actually locked
out and you fail the rep here. And the
last part that you need to do is
straighten your back. So, it's not a
weakness in glutes. It's a weakness in
your ability to hold position off the
floor. So, what a lot of people do is
practice their favorite rack pull, which
is nice on the ego. It allows you to
lift a heavier weight, but it doesn't
fix the problem. The problem is you
being pulled out of position off the
floor. And this is one of my favorite
ways to fix it. So, watch what I'm
doing. I don't just yank it off the
floor. The technique that I like to use
is I lock my torso in place and I use my
leg drive to initiate that movement. So,
so I'm tight here and then it's just leg
pressing the welder away and then drive.
Leg press, drive. Okay.
And that is why it's one of my favorite
accessory exercises that you should be
doing to improve your top end deadlift.
I'm going to add a little bit of weight.
D1.
[Music]
Okay,
that's an exercise that I say is about
15% less than what you could do
conventionally. So, that was not limit.
Um, but you don't always train at limit,
right? So, my best on that, well, I
haven't really tested that often. The
most I've ever done is 280 kg for two
reps. And that was at a time where I was
able to do 320 kg. So, it's kind of if
you want to do your own maths, it's, you
know, 10 10 15% less than what your top
conventional is. But the point of it
isn't to max out. The point of it is
positioning movement, spending time
under tension at the points where you
need to spend more time under tension.
Getting comfortable at the hardest parts
of the movement. The hardest part of a
deadlift is off the floor. Even if you
fail at the lockout, remember what I
said, usually people fail at the
lockout. No, even if you fail at the
lockout, the hardest part's off the
floor. You know why? Because people
blame the lockout or weak lockout
strength for missing at the lockout. But
the reason why most people fail their
lockout is because they're pulled out of
position off the floor. They grind it
out and they get to this point here and
the hardest part is their hips are
through and now they have to so their
hips have locked out. Now they have to
lock out their upper back. So you have
to lock out twice. Whereas when we
practice this exercise, it teaches you
to hold position here so that we can our
torso is rigid. So all we need to do to
finalize the move to finish the movement
is drive the hips through. and we're
locked out. Whereas, when your back is
rounded like a fishing rod, that's
usually caused by weakness off the floor
and your hips lock out at the top, but
then you have to straighten up your
back, which is where people are weak.
So, if you're failing your deadlifts at
lockout and you think that the fix is a
rack pull, you're doing it wrong. And
I'll tell you why. Well, firstly, I just
told you why. But when people perform
their rack pulls, the way that they
perform their rack pulls is not with a
fishing rod back. They perform their
rack pulls from a neutral spine position
and they finish the lockout like it's a
big heavy hip extension exercise. But
that's not the position that you're in
when you fail a deadlift at the lockout
because you're pulled out of position
off the floor. And this is how you look
like when you fail the lockout. You lock
your hips, you lock your knees, but you
haven't straightened your back. So then
when you go and do all of these
beautiful rack pulls with a nice neutral
spine position and then come back to
deadlift again, your max loads and
you're pulled out of position and then
you fail the lock out again because you
haven't addressed a problem which is
strength off the floor. And if you
include this, it's my favorite way of
addressing weakness in a deadlift, which
is off the floor, which in my opinion
most people that's the hardest part of
the deadlift. So you can never be even
if you think that that's not your weak
point, I think you should strengthen it
anyway. You can never be too strong off
the floor. So that teaches you how to
maximize tension off the floor when it's
most important. As well as how to
maintain a rigid spine position. So a
lot of people argue whether it's good or
bad to round your back. That's not what
I'm talking about. Not talking about it
from a safety standpoint. I'm talking
about it from an efficiency standpoint.
If you round your back in a deadlift,
that's the weakest part. locking
straightening your back to finish a
deadlift is a lot harder than keeping
your back straight in the first place
and driving your strong hips through. So
that one of my favorite deadlifts to
help you with conventional deadlift sumo
deadlift, a squat, just having a strong
body. So whether you're doing it for a
deadlift or not, it's just one of one of
the best exercises that you can do and
you should be including it. So next up,
I'm going to show you some of my other
favorite exercises. Um, and I'm going to
talk about something that I'm not going
to do today, but I'll show some a video
of me actually doing it because it's a
very tough one to do and it's something
that I like to do maybe once a year. And
that is snatch grip deadlift from a
deficit.
[Music]
Okay, so that's
I feel good about that. That's week four
in my sumo deadlift journey if you guys
have been following. And I'm doing it
the smart way, which is not going for
the heavy singles like I did the last
few weeks. But I got to a point where
it's like, okay, those heavy singles are
exactly what I teach people not to do
when they start their deadlifting
journey. It's the easiest trap to fall
into because let's face it, you at home,
your strongest lift, you know, it is the
deadlift. And it's the same for
everyone. Of all of the gym lifts,
that's what you can lift with free
weights. Of course, that's what you can
lift the most weight with. So, it's fun
and it's fun to see the strength
potential increase. But that's the exact
problem is it's what happened with me.
It's what happened with so many people
that I work with. When you first start
their lifting, you first realize it's
your strongest lift. So then you push it
every week and then you see all the cool
guys on TV doing their heavy singles.
You see Thor Bjönson doing 505 kg
preparing for 510. And you say, "I like
that. I want to do that." So I come in
and I go heavy every week and I haven't
conditioned my body for those heavy
loads and then all of a sudden I've got
low back pain and I blame the deadlift.
And I say deadlift is bad for your back.
And then everyone who went down the same
path as that will all agree. Then
everyone says together the deadlift's
bad for your back. However, that's not
the case. Deadlifting with that approach
is bad for your back. When you're
learning an exercise, in any exercise,
it's very rare that you start the
journey with attempting your max your
max single every week, week after week.
But for some reason, the deadlift is
just one of those lifts that everyone
wants to do, myself included, and I had
to learn that lesson. So now, when
people work with me, usually the first
thing that I do is get them on a
variation of a deadlift that makes it
very difficult to lift heavy weights.
And I use a high volume approach which
also makes it difficult to lift heavy
weight heavy weights. So my go-to start
point for most people that I work with
is a snatch grip deadlift from a
deficit. Now this is something that I
learned from Charles Polloquin. He was
one of my early mentors. He's also sadly
passed away.
Uh but I shouldn't laugh. I'm not
laughing cuz it's funny. I'm laughing
cuz it's so unfortunate because a lot of
the legends in our game are no longer
with us. But, uh, Charles Polloquin was
definitely one of the best of all time.
And that's a an exercise sequence that
he taught me, which was snatch group
deadlifts from a deficit, borrowing some
ideas from German volume training
techniques. So, German volume training,
if anyone's ever tried that before,
that's 10 sets of 10 on your big
compound movements. So, he used to talk
a little bit about that, saying how it's
a great way of building muscle. And he
modified it in a way to get the most
bang for your buck exercises. So he
would do things like a snatch grip
deadlift from a deficit, but instead of
10 by 10, it was 10 sets of six. And he
used to love his slow eccentrics. So
it's 10 sets of six, snatch grip,
deadlift from a deficit with a 5-second
eccentric with 3 minutes rest. Now, I
was at a position when he introduced
this to me where my back was injured
from that approach of trying to max out
every week and I hurt my back. And this
was back in the day when my max deadlift
was 220 kg. And I attempted 240 with a
round back, hurt my back, couldn't get
the lift. Anyway, so for about a year
after that, my back was sore to the
point where every time I got up to about
140 kg, so three plates each side, my
back would hurt and it was super
frustrating. So then when I saw this
program, when Charles introduced me to
this program, I thought, okay, think
about it. Think about the stimulus. It's
such a long range of motion with slow
eentric, such a high volume, you just
can't go heavy. So I came and I thought,
you know what? I can't do lift anyway. I
may as well just do it. And I did it
with 100 kg and I was able to do it with
no pain. And it was a huge stimulus. It
was like, whoa, this is really hard. I
got such a a pump in all of the
deadlifting muscles, especially in my
back. The erectus spina were the main
ones. It's like, okay, fine. I'm able to
do it. So, let's just continue doing it.
Anyway, I did six cycles of it. So, I
was doing it at a program where it was
twice a week. So, that was over 3 weeks.
And I went up by not even much. I think
it was like 2 1/2 kg each session. So,
100, 102, 105, 17, 110, 112 1/2. And
then I came and retested my which is
also not the best thing to do but you
know me and same as a lot of people it's
like yeah great now it's a great
opportunity. It's like it's not hurting
anymore. It's a great opportunity to see
if I'm okay with a one rep max load.
Also not an intelligent approach but
it's what I did just being honest. Um
but either way I got up to 220 kg which
was my previous max from over a year
ago. And I got it relatively comfortably
but most importantly with zero pain. So
I thought, okay, I still had, if
anyone's experienced back pain, you'll
know exactly what I'm talking about. A
large part of the recovery process is
the mental component. So I believe all
of the tissue had repaired, but the
brain hadn't. And so I came to the 220
kg and it was pretty comfortable, but I
was scared to go heavier. So I didn't go
heavier. And that was the start of my
kind of realization that, you know,
maxing out every week isn't the best
approach. studying books from written by
Professor Stuart McGill, one of the best
spine authorities in our game, talks a
lot about his process with
rehabilitating backs, starting with high
volume, high volume, building work
capacity before we go on to the high
loads and low rep range. Uh, and I
couldn't agree more. So, now this is
what I do when people start working with
me. A lot of people get excited that
they know that I love to deadlift. A lot
of people that work with me know that I
coach Thor Bjönson and I know how to get
people to deadlift heavy. But I'll tell
you now, even Thor Bjönson started when
I first started working with him, he
went on this program, 10x6 snatch grip,
dead from a deficit. So this is what I
do is I don't even wait for people to be
injured before I give them this program.
That's my base builder. You know, if you
are in your off season, that's when I
would give it to you. So a lot of people
come to me with 8 weeks pre-MP and it's
like, okay, I'm not going to do
something a high volume phase 8 weeks
pre-MP. We're going to get straight into
specificity work. But if people come to
me and they give me a good amount of
time, that's typically my go-to start
point to build a base to then start
progressing to uh lower rep ranges and
heavier loads. So anyway, so that
exercise in particular, so this is a
sumo deadlift. This is for my sumo
lovers out there, of course. Uh that's
quite niche these days. A lot of people
have something to say about sumo,
whatever. Uh I don't get upset with
people doing whatever exercises they
want, and I think it's a great exercise.
Um, is it cheating? No, it's not. It's
allowed in powerlifting. It's not
allowed in strongman and therefore it's
not possible to cheat because you just
can't do it in strongman. So, therefore,
it's not cheating. But same approach.
So, a lot of people come into their sumo
deadlifting journey after they've
practiced a whole ton of conventional
and they think I can deadlift whatever
the amount, let's just say 300 kg. I'm
going to come in and try and attempt 300
kg with my sumo only to find out that
it's very awkward, very uncomfortable,
and then they end up maybe injuring
themselves or hurting their their
adductors or their hips or some type of
discomfort before they turn around and
they say, "That exercise is not for me.
That exercise sucks." That's because you
took the wrong approach. And that
approach is coming in and going as heavy
as you can on your first sessions. So,
this is my preferred approach. So, sets
of five with pauses. That's one of many.
Uh but a lot of the times I will start
my sumo deadlifting journey when I'm
coaching people to learn how to do a
sumo with higher reps and lower loads
and stimulus that forces you to reduce
the load. So adding in a pause which is
what I did. Now there's a difference
between a sumo pause and a conventional
pause is I typically with my training I
I haven't uh and I it's kind of a rule
that I have. I don't want to speak in
absolutes but I typically don't use
deficits for sumo because it's quite an
aggressive position on your hips. So
standing wide is aggressive of a stretch
enough to not need to go even further.
So if you go, you know, standing on a
deficit, it's going to put the adductors
at an even greater stretch. So when
muscles are at the longest length,
that's the weakest contractile position,
which needs to be conditioned. So if you
were to do a long range of motion with a
wide stance, use a very, very, very
light weight. But in general, just doing
a pause sumo deadlift, in my opinion, is
a really great start for your
deadlifting journey. doing that for a
few weeks, few months even before we
start loading with heavy. So next up is
my next accessory exercise. Yeah,
>> talk about 10 by six with any accessory
exercises on top of that.
>> Yeah. So no for that program of 10x6. Uh
if you've ever tried it, here's a few of
the rules. If you understand my
programming protocols, I never start
your program with what you can do. I
save that for week two or week three.
What you can do on week one is usually
5% less than that. Someone's knocking at
my door. Hey Rachie, how are you? Hello.
Is that heavy one?
>> Yeah, I think 20.
>> That's Thank you.
>> My client.
>> Oh, just there. My pleasure.
>> Still recording. Nothing special. Just
someone delivering. Now, if you're going
to do that 10 sets of six program with a
snatch grip deadlift from the deficit.
The way that I calculate how much weight
you can do is I figure out whatever your
one rep max is for a conventional, you
should be able to do 50% of that. So, if
your one rep max is 200 kg, you should
be able to do 100 kg for 10 sets of six.
However, if you understand my
programming protocols, I always teach
people to start conservative. So, I say
if you can do 200, you will be able to
do 100, but that's kind of hard. And I
don't like people to start on hard. I
like people to start 5% less than that.
So, my guidelines is to calculate what
your 1 RM is and start with 45% of that.
It's very humbling because imagine if
you can do 200 kg deadlift, 45% of that
is 90 kg. Imagine going I can do 200 kg.
Why are you making me do a program on 90
kg? Because it's hard. Because it's it's
a lot of volume. That's why. And the way
that I set you up for programming. So,
if you've not followed my work, the way
that I like to do my programs are to
start conservative to allow room to
progress each week. So, if I was to
write out, say, a four-weekly program,
week four is the week that I'm going for
the number. Week one is the week that
I'm learning and preparing my body to
progress to that number. Don't go super
heavy on week one. Week one, start
conservative to allow room to add weight
to the bar every time you come into the
gym. So, the way that I like to consider
that is if you understand what RP is,
that's called rating of perceived
exertion, which means a score out of 10,
where you're gauging the degree of
difficulty. So, 10 RP 10 means you're
taking it to your absolute limit. You
wouldn't be able to do a single rep more
than that. If a fly landed on the bar,
you wouldn't lift it. That's your
absolute limit. It's not quite failing,
but it's the absolute limit. RP9 is
roughly a rep in reserve. RP8 is roughly
two reps in reserve. RP7 is roughly
three reps in reserve. So what I like to
consider is to start on week one RP7.
Week two RP8. Week three RP9. So that's
getting really hard. One rep in reserve
is really hard. And then on on week four
we're kind of approaching RP 10ish. It's
pretty hard to gauge what an exact RP 10
is. So this is where you are at risk of
failing. You want to kind of go a little
bit less than that. So maybe you could
call it a RP 9.5 between a 9.5 and a 10.
So that's what we're going for. So the
point of that is start conservative. So
what does that mean to you? Humans are
very poor at predicting how many reps in
reserve we actually have. But that's
okay. It doesn't mean it's wrong. Of
course it's going to be wrong. We're all
wrong. We can never predict perfectly.
But it's just a gauge. It's a way of
saying let's start conservative enough
to make sure that we're going to finish
all reps and all sets without breaking
down technique and without missing any
repetitions. So So that's the number.
And then, you know, you do the phase and
it's like, okay, I called that an RP7,
but it was probably an RP8 or an RP6.
Guess what you get to do next phase? You
get to calibrate. Okay, you get to be a
little bit smarter and learn your
limitations a little bit better. And
this is the whole art of training. And
this is what makes you better at
training. A more experienced trainee is
to learn. So, it's like, you know, the
debate of should you train to fail or
not? Well, the fact is, if you've never
been to fail, how do you know what fails
like? How do you know how many reps in
reserve you have if you've never been to
complete failure? You don't. So every
now and then testing your limitations is
an intelligent approach to learning more
about yourself. Understanding your
limitations, but just not all the time.
So the way that I do it is with that
intelligent structured approach which is
starting with RP 7 8 9 and then getting
close to 10. And then we restart that
process on the next four-week phase 7 8
9 10 and then the next phase 7 8 9 10
and so on. And that's one of my best
programming hacks that I would call it.
It is a hack because most people, you
too, I know it's you because I used to
do it as well, come in on week one of my
program and work as hard as I can. Does
that sound familiar? That's what I do
for a living. It's what I deal with
every single day. People that come to me
and they say, "I've plateaued." Okay.
Well, let me guess how you train. You
train as hard as you can every time you
come into the gym. Because it sounds
like it's the most intelligent approach.
And to a large degree, it is. We get
rewarded by working hard. But the way
that I like to compare it is using a
marathon as an analogy. You want to work
hard to win a marathon, but does that
mean sprint at the start of the race? Or
does it mean you pace yourself so you
can set yourself up for a successful
entire race? This is the same approach.
You're setting yourself up for an entire
a successful entire mess cycle or four-w
weekly plan or 6 weeks or 8 weeks or
however many weeks your meo cycle takes.
Set yourself up by starting
conservative, which is pacing yourself,
learning the demands of the day,
learning the demands of the week before
you start pushing yourself a little bit
harder. And that's yeah, that's a hack
that I use. That's what I teach a lot of
people who have plateaued. And if you've
plateaued, you need to try that. You're
welcome. That was for free. Unless you
want to subscribe. It just costs you a
subscription. That's all. And and click
like as well. Come on. It's not that
hard. You don't have to pay for it.
Anyway, all right. Enough talk. I got to
keep doing my session. So, leg press.
many ways of doing a leg press that can
be considered successful depending on
what you're trying to achieve. So, I've
seen highlevel power lifters using a leg
press to help their squats and I know
what they that they position their feet
in a way to carry over to their squats.
So, I'm going to show you what that is.
So, when I do a squat, I stand with my
squat stance, which is, you know, like
this. I squat quite wide. And when I
squat, I think about opening my hips.
And that's how I would do a leg press to
have carryover to my low bar squat.
Next, we're doing a deadlift video. So,
this is how people would do a a leg
press to carry over to their deadlift.
Have a look at my stance. This is my
deadlift stance.
Two different techniques, both very
effective. Now, I'm going to show you
the way that I'm going to be doing it,
which is
more for hypertrophy for quadriceps. All
of the work that I do with my squatting
and deadlifting is very posterior chain
dominant, very hip extensor dominant,
and therefore I neglect quadriceps a
lot. So, my weakness is actually
quadriceps. I don't consider this for
myself as a way of carrying over to the
deadlift of the squats. I consider this
as an exercise to target what I've
neglected with all of my specificity
work. So, it's a three right answers
here. So, what I'm doing for now is feet
low, pushing through the balls of my
feet, and allowing a full range of
motion in knee bend because that's going
to make sure that I'm maximizing
quadriceps recruitment. So, pushing
through the balls of the feet
is the way that I'm going to be doing
today,
which is actually my favorite quad
builder. My favorite quad builder. Now,
you may have heard me say that before.
This is my favorite quad builder for
another exercise,
and that's a stiletto squat. Now, let me
add context.
Stiletto squat is my favorite quad
builder of the exercises that have a
high carryover to your squatting because
you still have to put a barbell on your
back, load your spine, balance your
body, coordinate your body in a way that
will have more carryover to a squat.
With a leg press, I don't have to load
my spine.
Now, objectively, if the goal was purely
building quadriceps, this has the
advantage because I'm not focusing on
stability. I'm not focusing on balance
and coordination or loading my spine. My
spine is unloaded here. And all I'm
going to do is target quadriceps. So,
here's the rules when it comes to your
choice of exercise and their
effectiveness for building muscle.
The muscle you're targeting must be the
limiting factor of the movement, which
means the muscle that you're targeting
needs to fail first. So, let's talk
about this exercise. When I do that
technique, what fails first? So, when
I'm going to absolute failure, what's
the muscle that fails? I have no choice.
It's the quadriceps that fail first.
When I'm doing a squat, low bar squat,
what muscle fails first. I'll tell you
right now, it's not my quadriceps.
What I can't tell you right now is
exactly what muscle is failing first.
It's very general. I'm using my whole
body. Maybe it's my cardiovascular
system. Maybe it's my core strength.
Maybe it's my back. I don't know.
Especially when I'm doing a low bar
squat. It's definitely not my
quadriceps. When I do a stiletto squat,
yeah, it is pretty much going to be my
quadriceps, but I'm still spending a lot
of my neural energy on balancing and
stabilizing and loading my spine as
well. So,
they're both excellent exercises. If you
want to have one exercise that's better
carryover for squats, the stiletto squat
is the best quad building that also has
carryover to squats. But if you have no
regard for your ability to squat, such
as a bodybuilder, a leg press has the
advantage. And that's what I'm doing
right now. So, this is my secondary um
my secondary day. It's my deadlift day,
but it's the second day of the week that
I do lower body. Now, here's another
rule that I have that you can take with
you. So, I talk about frequency of
exercises, and I've told you that the
deadlifts are the most fatiguing
of all of the exercises. So, when it
comes to frequency, in my opinion, once
a week for deadlifts is really plenty.
Some people train more. For me, it's
like, okay, Thor Bjöson trains it once a
week. And of that one session per week,
it's only it's one heavy session per
Fortnite. So, it's heavy session, light
session, heavy session, light session,
and he's got the biggest deadlift in the
world. However, the argument against
that is, well, he's lifting so heavy
that he needs more time to recover. What
if you're a newbie? Correct. If you're
not lifting as heavy, then you can get
away with high frequency. But in
general, I say that one deadlift session
a week is high enough frequency. And
when you get good enough, it's one heavy
session per Fortnite and one light
session per Fortnite is the sweet spot
as long as you're combining that with
your squats because the squats have a
huge carryover.
Okay, so that's deadlift frequency. Now,
let's talk about squat frequency when
we're combining all of that. In my
opinion, the best frequency is minimum
two times per week to stimulate
quadriceps.
So you see how I said stimulate
quadriceps not necessarily to perform
squats. So that means for me at the
moment with my phase I'm doing one squat
day which is on Friday
and this is my secondary quadricep
stimulating session. So this is why I
have to get my leg presses in. Now if I
wasn't doing leg press a lot of these
sessions I do things like stiletto
squats or leg extensions. But that is my
rule with frequency with quadriceps is
two times per week is my sweet spot.
Deadlifts two times per week. And I know
that we're not doing upper body right
now, but I will talk about it. Bench
press two times a week is when I'm
combining it all together. But if I was
to specialize, I would say three times a
week for bench press is optimal. See,
the smaller the muscles, the lighter the
lift, the more frequent you can do it.
Can you see the trend? So the deadlift
is the strongest, so therefore do it the
least. The squat is the second
strongest, so do it a little bit more.
And the bench press is typically the
weakest, so you can get away with doing
a little bit more frequency. So, there's
a few tips for you for programming. Uh,
anyway, time for me to do more sets.
I will go heavier
[Music]
reps and sets for leg press. So, for leg
press, I don't like going super super
heavy because when I'm underneath here,
I feel tremendous blood pressure
increase in my head and it feels
terrible.
Which is why I like to do, you know,
with a leg press. It's just one of those
positions where your legs are very
strong and you can load lots and lots of
weight, especially if you do high reps.
And for me, the feeling that I get is
not worth it. I feel like my head's
going to explode like in a dangerous
way. So that's why whenever I do a leg
press,
I'll choose a rep range of 15, 20,
25, and up to 30.
So depends on what phase I'm in. So
right now is my lower intensity day. So
yeah, maybe. So that's five plates. It's
not huge. Um, but I'll do sets of 20 or
25. I think I'll do that. I'll just
stick it to there. 25 reps on on that.
Um very, you know, hypertrophy focused.
It's not strength focused, it's
hypertrophy focused,
but they complement each other. So
building muscle complements your
strength
indirectly.
So, I'm going to tell you a secret.
Listen to my voice. I sound like I'm
calm.
But then it's going to get to the point
where I'm going to be lost for words.
So, in that time, I'm going to wrap up
my video.
Now, I'm going to start breathing
heavily. So, hope you enjoyed that.
That's my deadlift day with no heavy
deadlifts. But I will say looking back
on the technique,
the objective of today is exercises that
carry over to deadlift strength. But the
biggest thing that carries over to how
much you can deadlift is technique. And
I will say that I was very happy with my
technique across the board with my sumo
deadlift. Even though I'm new to the
movement, this is week four. And I
believe my technique is coming along
really well to the point where I would
say, "Yeah, you could probably start
modeling your deadlift off mine. It's
not perfect, but I'm still week four,
but it's pretty damn good. I'm happy
with it." Conventional deadlift.
I didn't do a conventional. I did pause
deficit deadlift with a conventional
stance,
but I also liked the technique on that.
Someone commented on my last video that
I was glazing my own rear delts. Now I'm
here glazing my deadlifts. Whatever.
Fine. But so what? I've been doing it
for a while. I've coached some pretty
amazing people and these are the
techniques that I teach. And a lot of
the times people are looking somewhere
to say, "This person's saying one thing,
that person's saying another. Now I'm
torn. I don't know who to listen to.
So, a lot of the times people listen to
the person who's speaking with
conviction,
who's more assertive, with the delivery,
and the ones that make you feel like
you're an idiot if you don't listen to
me. Well, I don't want to belittle
anybody and say you're an idiot if you
don't listen to me. But I what I will
say is these are the techniques that
I've learned from the best in the world
and I've taught to the best in the
world.
So the techniques that we're using
absolutely work. There are other
methods. There might be other coaches
that say my way is better than yours and
whatever. That's totally fine.
I like to say, what are the results that
are being produced with these methods?
And the results that I'm producing
so far is a 505 kg deadlift. And in two
weeks, we're going to go for 510. So,
they work for me and I promise you they
work for you.